GYDS Node Deployment Guide

This guide describes all available deployment scripts for the GYDS blockchain, detailing features, workflows, and usage instructions.

1. deploy_gyds_full_sync_offchain_vpn.sh

Purpose: Full deployment with off-chain assets pre-downloaded and VPN configured.

Key Features:

Pre-downloads off-chain assets (TrustWallet metadata, logos) before starting nodes.

Full node builds and syncs first, verified via RPC and blockchain length.

Lite nodes start only after the full node is fully synced.

Kerio VPN installed and auto-connect configured.

Firewall rules applied for all nodes.

Multi-lite-node support with unique ports.

Admin wallet generated automatically if not present.

Safe, automated network-ready deployment in a single command.

2. deploy_gyds_sync_safe.sh

Purpose: Safe, sequential node deployment.

Key Features:

Full node update and build first.

Lite nodes only start after full node is fully synced.

Multi-lite-node deployment with unique ports.

Automatic admin wallet generation.

Kerio VPN installation and auto-connect on boot.

Firewall rules configured for all RPC/P2P ports.

Ensures lite nodes never start too early.

3. deploy_gyds_sync_vpn_all.sh

Purpose: Full deployment with VPN and systemd service automation.

Enhancements:

Pre-sync check: Lite nodes wait until full node is online.

Automatic admin wallet creation if missing.

Kerio VPN installation with auto-connect on boot via cron.

Multi-lite-node support with sequential RPC/P2P ports.

All nodes run as systemd services, auto-start on reboot.

Firewall configured for all nodes.

Full node fully updated before any lite node starts.

4. deploy_gyds_all_in_one.sh

Purpose: Ultimate all-in-one deployment script.

Features:

Full node with mining enabled.

Automatic deployment of any number of lite nodes.

Admin HD wallet generated automatically.

Firewall configured for all RPC/P2P ports.

Kerio VPN client downloaded and installed.

User inputs VPN host, username, and password.

Nodes ready to connect over VPN.

All nodes run as systemd services and auto-start on reboot.

5. deploy_gyds_multi_lite.sh

Purpose: Automated multi-lite-node deployment.

Usage Example:

sudo bash deploy_gyds_multi_lite.sh 5


Workflow:

Reads the admin wallet from admin_wallet.txt.

For each lite node:

Assigns unique RPC and P2P ports.

Generates config_lite_X.json.

Creates a systemd service.

Opens firewall ports.

Starts the lite node automatically.

Example Ports Table (3 lite nodes):

Node	RPC Port	P2P Port	Service Name
1	8546	30304	gyds-lite-node-1
2	8547	30305	gyds-lite-node-2
3	8548	30306	gyds-lite-node-3

Benefits:

Fully automated multi-lite-node deployment.

All lite nodes share the same admin wallet.

Nodes auto-start on reboot and have separate ports.

Scalable to dozens of lite nodes.

6. deploy_gyds_full_and_lite.sh

Purpose: Deploys both full and lite nodes together.

Workflow:

Updates server and installs dependencies.

Clones/updates gyds-chain repository.

Builds Go node binary.

Generates admin HD wallet automatically.

Creates config.json for full node (mining enabled).

Creates config_lite.json for lite node (mining disabled).

Sets up systemd services for both nodes.

Opens firewall ports for RPC and P2P for both nodes.

Starts both nodes automatically.

Result:

Full node mines blocks, serves RPC on 8545.

Lite node connects via VPN, serves RPC on 8546.

Both nodes auto-restart on failure or reboot.

Admin wallet used by both nodes automatically.

7. deploy_gyds_node.sh

Purpose: Single-node deployment with firewall and auto-start.

Workflow:

Installs dependencies: Go, Git, jq, UFW.

Clones or updates gyds-chain.

Builds Go node binary.

Checks for config.json and prompts if admin wallet needs editing.

Creates systemd service to auto-start node.

Sets up UFW firewall for RPC and P2P ports.

Starts the node and enables auto-start on reboot.

Notes & Best Practices

Order of Deployment: Always deploy the full node first, then lite nodes.

VPN Integration: Kerio VPN setup ensures all nodes can securely communicate.

Firewall: UFW rules are automatically configured, but double-check if running on custom ports.

Admin Wallet: Automatically generated if missing; keep backup.

Systemd Services: All nodes are configured to restart automatically on reboot or failure.

This guide now serves as a central reference for all GYDS node deployment scripts, showing their purpose, features, workflows, and usage examples.
